README.md, before:

# Presidential_Election

#Instructions
1. Download data 
    - Edwood - committe master file 
    - Amy- candidate master file 
    - Emily - Candidate Committee Linkage File 
    - Olivia - Contribution to Candidates File 
 2. Copy over the pgAdmin code (Template) into SQL script 
 3. Edit the code to create a new table
 5. Name the file "Import.sql"
 4. Run the script at the command line using `psql`
    - Repeat until you get it right
 6. Upload the file to GitHub (we are all working on this together)

Naming Conventions:
1. mast = master
2. cand = candidate 
3. cmte = committee

# How to add the `psql` binary to path
1. To find where the psql binary, use this code chunk to search within your application library (where the psql binary is):
```{bash, eval=FALSE}
find /Library  -name "psql"
```

2. Copy the path that identfies the binary. To permanently be able to access psql via terminal, you need to edit your .bash_profile file. To do this do:

`nano ~/.bash_profile`

Once you're in, paste your path into the file.

```{bash, eval=FALSE}
#psql library path
export PATH=/Library/PostgreSQL/11/bin:$PATH
```

3. Now echo your path to make sure you made the correct changes
`echo $PATH`

4. Type in `psql -U postgres` into the command line. This logs you into psql as the user "postgres". When asked for the password, enter the super user password you created when installing postgres. Not your computer's password.

Commit message:

added more instructions about database creation and creating the tables

README.md, after:

# Presidential_Election

#Instructions
1. Download data 
    - Edwood - committe master file 
    - Amy- candidate master file 
    - Emily - Candidate Committee Linkage File 
    - Olivia - Contribution to Candidates File 
 2. Copy over the pgAdmin code (Template) into SQL script 
 3. Edit the code to create a new table
 5. Name the file "Import.sql"
 4. Run the script at the command line using `psql`
    - Repeat until you get it right
 6. Upload the file to GitHub (we are all working on this together)

Naming Conventions:
1. mast = master
2. cand = candidate 
3. cmte = committee

# How to add the `psql` binary to path
1. To find where the psql binary, use this code chunk to search within your application library (where the psql binary is):
```{bash, eval=FALSE}
find /Library  -name "psql"
```

2. Copy the path that identfies where binary is. To permanently be able to access psql via terminal, you need to edit your .bash_profile file. To do this do:

`nano ~/.bash_profile`

Once you're in, paste your path into the file.

```{bash, eval=FALSE}
#psql library path
export PATH=/Library/PostgreSQL/11/bin:$PATH
```

3. Now echo your path to make sure you made the correct changes
`echo $PATH`

4. Type in `psql -U postgres` into the command line. This logs you into psql as the user "postgres". When asked for the password, enter the super user password you created when installing postgres. Not your computer's password. 

# How to create the database in PgAdmin

1. Right click "localhost" in the right side panel.
2. Click Create > Database...
3. In the window, give the database a name and click save.

# How to create the table with your SQL script via psql

1. Navigate to where your SQL script lives.

2. Next log in as user postgres and point your database to the path of the script.

```{bash, eval=FALSE}
psql -U postgres [Insert your database name] < [Insert your SQL script name here]
```

For example, 
```{bash, eval=FALSE}
psql -U postgres Presidential_Election < import_candidate_master.sql
```

3. If it runs, congratulations 🎉 if not, interpret the error message, fix the script, and go back to Step 2.
